XAA Resource App blog (#1631)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2026-02-17-xaa-resource-app.md

> Note: Only the org authorization server can be used to exchange ID-JAG tokens. Ensure you are using the org authorization server and not an Okta "custom authorization server".

{% img blog/xaa-resource-app/image2.jpg alt:" " width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Get a (XAA) Client ID for Agent0 from the Resource app's Auth Server

To allow the exchange of an ID-JAG token between Agent0 and your resource app, Agent0 must be registered as an OAuth client in your resource app's OAuth server. 

* Register your requesting app (**Agent0**) as an OAuth client in your resource app's OAuth server.    
* Make a note of the Client ID for your requesting app (**Agent0**). You'll need this as you set up your resource app.

> Note: The process for registering a client ID from your resource app's OAuth server will vary depending on the product.

# Set up your resource app (Taskflow)

To set up your resource app in your org, you can use the placeholder integration in the OIN catalog called ***Todo0 - Cross App Access (XAA) Sample Resource App*** and configure it as your resource app.

> * Still in Admin console, navigate to **Applications > Applications**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Still in Admin Console, navigate to **Applications > Applications**
```

* Select **Browse App Catalog**
* Search for **Todo0 - Cross App Access (XAA) Sample Resource App**, and select it  
* Select **Add Integration**

Now give it a helpful name and assign user access to Taskflow.

* Set the Application label to ***Taskflow***, and click Done.  
* Select the **Assignments** tab  
  * To assign it to a single user, select **Assign > Assign to People** and choose your user  
  * To assign it to a user group, select **Assign > Assign to Groups** and choose your user group  
* Click **Done**

## Update the audience value of your Resource app's auth server

By default, Okta will issue an ID-JAG token for Agent0 with the audience (`aud`) value set to that of the sample resource app (Todo0): `http://localhost:5001/`. You must change this so the ID-JAG token includes an audience value that identifies your actual resource app's authorization server.

To do this, contact the Okta XAA team to replace your app's audience value in Okta by sending an email to xaa@okta.com. Provide the following information to the Okta XAA team:

***Okta Integrator Org URL:*** 'https://{yourOktaDomain}'  

> ***Audience:*** 'http://youresourceapps.authserver.org'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***Audience:*** 'http://yourresourceapps.authserver.org'
```

***Client ID from your own OAuth server:*** [Agent0's XAA client ID you created earlier]

Please note that the Client ID you provide must be the client ID from your own OAuth server that was created earlier.

# Establish Connections between Agent0 and your resource app

Now that you have set up both requesting and resource apps, you need to establish that Agent0 can be trusted to make requests to your resource app.

> * Still in Admin console, navigate to **Applications > Applications > Agent0**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Still in Admin Console, navigate to **Applications > Applications > Agent0**
```

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Test Your Resource App is Connected to Okta and XAA-enabled"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Develop a XAA-Enabled Resource Application and Test with Okta"
```

author: aaron-parecki
by: advocate
communities: [javascript,security,python,.net,java,go]
description: "Learn how to validate and test an XAA-enabled resource app with Okta, including ID-JAG verification, audience checks, and end-to-end token exchange."
tags: [xaa, cross-app-access, enterprise-ai, agentic-ai, oauth]
tweets:
image: blog/xaa-resource-app/social-image.jpg
type: awareness
---

> From an enterprise resource app owner's perspective, Cross App Access (XAA) is a game-changer because it allows their resources to be "AI-ready" without compromising on security. In the XAA model, resource apps rely on the enterprise's Identity Provider (IdP) to be their source of truth. They defer to the IdP to check enterprise policies and user groups, assign AI agent permissions, and log and audit AI agent requests as they occur. In return, they need only to perform a few checks:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From an enterprise resource app owner's perspective, Cross App Access (XAA) is a game-changer because it allows their resources to be "AI-ready" without compromising on security. In the XAA model, resource apps rely on the enterprise's Identity Provider (IdP) to manage access. Instead of building out interactive OAuth flows, they defer to the IdP to check enterprise policies and user groups, assign AI agent permissions, and log and audit AI agent requests as they occur. In return, the app's OAuth server needs only to perform a few checks:
```

> * When the app receives a POST request to its /token endpoint from an AI Agent, the app fetches the IdP's public keys (via the /JWKS endpoint) to ensure the ID-JAG token attached to the request was actually minted by the trusted company IdP.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When the app's OAuth server receives a POST request to its token endpoint from an AI Agent, the app fetches the IdP's public keys (via the JWKS endpoint) to ensure the ID-JAG token attached to the request was actually minted by the trusted company IdP.  
```

> * It confirms the token was intended for this app specifically. If the *aud* claim doesn't match the app's own ID, it rejects the request.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It confirms the token was intended for this app specifically. If the *`aud`* claim doesn't match the app's own identifier, it rejects the request.  
```

> * Finally, it checks the end user ID in the token's ``` sub``` claim to know *whose* data to look up in your database. It must map to the same IdP identity. It will reject the request if the user isn't recognized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Finally, it checks the end user ID in the token's `sub` claim to know *whose* data to look up in your database. It must map to the same IdP identity. It will reject the request if the user isn't recognized.
```

You can read in depth about XAA to better understand how this works and examine the token exchange flow. 

{% excerpt /blog/2025/06/23/enterprise-ai %}

Or watch the video about Cross App Access:

{% youtube 3VLzeT1EGrg %}

> In this tutorial, we'll demonstrate how to test that an XAA-enabled resource app you have created (**TaskFlow**) is correctly using Okta as its **enterprise Identity Provider (IdP)** and source of truth. To do this, you'll:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we'll demonstrate how to test that an XAA-enabled resource app you have created (**TaskFlow**) is correctly using Okta as an **enterprise Identity Provider (IdP)** to sign users in, and we'll demonstrate how a sample AI app (**Agent0**) uses XAA to get access to TaskFlow. To do this, you'll:
```

* Enable Cross App Access in your Okta org  
* Register and configure the resource app (TaskFlow) in your org  
* Register the requesting app (Agent0) in your org as a known XAA app and connect it to TaskFlow.  
* Test that the XAA flow is working correctly when Agent0 requests access to Taskflow.

> > Note that your requesting app (Agent0) does not need Okta to act as its authorization server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note that the apps (TaskFlow or Agent0) do not use Okta as their authorization server.
```

# Enable Cross App Access in your Okta org

> To register your resource app with Okta, and set up secure agent-to-app connections, you'll need an Okta Developer org if you haven't got one already and enable XAA in it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To register your resource app with Okta, and set up secure agent-to-app connections, you'll need an Okta Developer org enabled with XAA:
```

* If you don't already have an account, sign up for a new one here: [Okta Integrator Free Plan](https://developer.okta.com/signup)  
* Once created, sign in to your new Integrator Free Plan org  
* In the Okta Admin Console, select **Settings > Features**  
* Navigate to **Early access**  

> * Find Cross App Access and select Turn on (enable the toggle)  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Find **Cross App Access** and select **Turn on** (enable the toggle)  
```

> Note:  Cross App Access is currently a self-service Early Access (EA) feature. You must enable it through the Admin Console before the apps appear in the catalog. If you don't see the option right away, refresh and confirm you have the necessary admin permissions. Learn more in the [Okta documentation on managing EA and beta features](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/content/topics/security/manage-ea-and-beta-features.htm).

{% img blog/xaa-resource-app/image1.jpg alt:" " width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

# Register your requesting app (Agent0)

To test whether your resource app is working correctly, Okta provides a placeholder entry in the Okta Integration Network catalog. It is called ***Agent0 - Cross App Access (XAA) Sample Requesting App***. Add this to your org's integrations.

* Still in Admin Console, go to **Applications > Applications**  
* Select **Browse App Catalog**  
* Search for "Agent0 - Cross App Access (XAA) Sample Requesting App", and select it  
* Select **Add Integration**

Now to configure it correctly. First, assign user access to Agent0.

* Change the **Application** label if required, and select **Done**,  
* Select the Assignments tab  

>   * To assign it to a single user, select Assign > Assign to People and choose your user  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * To assign it to a single user, select **Assign > Assign to People** and choose your user  
```

>   * To assign it to a user group, select Assign > Assign to Groups and choose your user group  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * To assign it to a user group, select **Assign > Assign to Groups** and choose your user group  
```

* Click Done

> Finally, configure Agent0 with the location of your resource app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, configure Agent0 with the redirect URI you will use to test Agent0
```

* Select the **Sign On tab**  
* Select **Edit**, and locate the Advanced Sign-on Settings section.  
* Set the **Redirect URI** to the URL that your app will use. For example, [http://localhost:8080/redirect](http://localhost:8080/redirect)  
* Click Save.  

> * Locate and copy the Client ID and Client secret in the Sign-On methods section. You must include these in the `.env.agent` file of your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Locate and copy the Client ID and Client secret in the Sign-On methods section. Your app must use these when signing users in through Okta.
```

> > Note: If you are using Okta as your requesting app's Identity Provider, only the org auth server can be used to exchange ID-JAG tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: Only the org authorization server can be used to exchange ID-JAG tokens. Ensure you are using the org authorization server and not an Okta "custom authorization server".
```

{% img blog/xaa-resource-app/image2.jpg alt:" " width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Get a (XAA) Client ID for Agent0 from the Resource app's Auth Server

To allow the exchange of an ID-JAG token between Agent0 and your resource app, Agent0 must be registered as an OAuth client in your resource app's OAuth server. 

* Register your requesting app (**Agent0**) as an OAuth client in your resource app's OAuth server.    
* Make a note of the Client ID for your requesting app (**Agent0**). You'll need this as you set up your resource app.

> > Note: In this case, both Agent0 and TaskFlow use Okta's authentication server, but it is useful to consider this step and the corresponding registration for the resource app as separate, to apply them when the apps' authentication servers are different.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: The process for registering a client ID from your resource app's OAuth server will vary depending on the product.
```

# Set up your resource app (Taskflow)

> To set up your resource app in your org, you can use the placeholder integration in the OIN catalog called ***Todo0 - Cross App Access (XAA) Sample Resource App*** and point it at your resource app instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up your resource app in your org, you can use the placeholder integration in the OIN catalog called ***Todo0 - Cross App Access (XAA) Sample Resource App*** and configure it as your resource app.
```

> * Still in Admin console, navigate to Applications > Applications  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Still in Admin console, navigate to **Applications > Applications**
```

> * Select Browse App Catalog  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Select **Browse App Catalog**
```

> * Search for Todo0 - Cross App Access (XAA) Sample Resource App, and select it  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Search for **Todo0 - Cross App Access (XAA) Sample Resource App**, and select it  
```

> * Select Add Integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Select **Add Integration**
```

Now give it a helpful name and assign user access to Taskflow.

* Set the Application label to ***Taskflow***, and click Done.  

> * Select the Assignments tab  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Select the **Assignments** tab  
```

>   * To assign it to a single user, select Assign > Assign to People and choose your user  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * To assign it to a single user, select **Assign > Assign to People** and choose your user  
```

>   * To assign it to a user group, select Assign > Assign to Groups and choose your user group  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * To assign it to a user group, select **Assign > Assign to Groups** and choose your user group  
```

> * Click Done

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Click **Done**
```

## Update the audience value of your Resource app's auth server

> By default, Okta will issue an ID-JAG token for Agent0 with the audience (aud) value set to that of the sample resource app (Todo0): [http://localhost:5001/](http://localhost:5001/). You must change this so the ID-JAG token includes an audience value that identifies your actual resource app's authorization server. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Okta will issue an ID-JAG token for Agent0 with the audience (`aud`) value set to that of the sample resource app (Todo0): `http://localhost:5001/`. You must change this so the ID-JAG token includes an audience value that identifies your actual resource app's authorization server.
```

To do this, contact the Okta XAA team to replace your app's audience value in Okta by sending an email to xaa@okta.com. Provide the following information to the Okta XAA team:

***Okta Integrator Org URL:*** 'https://{yourOktaDomain}'  
***Audience:*** 'http://youresourceapps.authserver.org'
***Client ID from your own OAuth server:*** [Agent0's XAA client ID you created earlier]

Please note that the Client ID you provide must be the client ID from your own OAuth server that was created earlier.

# Establish Connections between Agent0 and your resource app

Now that you have set up both requesting and resource apps, you need to establish that Agent0 can be trusted to make requests to your resource app.

> * Still in Admin console, navigate to Applications > Applications > Agent0  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Still in Admin console, navigate to **Applications > Applications > Agent0**
```

> * Go to the Manage Connections tab  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Go to the **Manage Connections** tab
```

> * Under Apps providing consent, select Add resource apps, select Taskflow, then Save  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Under **Apps providing consent**, select **Add resource apps**, select **Taskflow**, then **Save**
```

* Confirm that your resource app appears under **Apps providing consent**

Now Agent0 and Taskflow are connected.

{% img blog/xaa-resource-app/image3.jpg alt:" " width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

# Validate that your Resource App and Auth Server work as intended

Once the Okta XAA team confirms that your app's audience value has been updated in Okta, Agent0 can make a Token Exchange request to Okta and will receive an ID-JAG with the correct audience.

To test the end-to-end XAA flow with Agent0 to your authorization server, create a testing client that completes the following steps:

1. Agent0 signs the user in with OIDC.   
2. Agent0 exchanges the ID token for an ID-JAG at Okta  
3. Agent0 makes a token request with the ID-JAG at your authorization server

>     - As a response to Step 3, your authorization server validates...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
